.TH CIMPLE 1 "January, 17th May"

.SH NAME
cimple \- Console Image Manipulation Program, Logic and Easy

.SH SYNOPSIS
Cimple is a console based image editor written in C language. 

.SH COMPILATION
You can compile with the following options

.SS make
compile cimple files

.SS make coverage
after using cimple, you can create a coverage report with this option

.SS make cleanall
clean builds, tests and coverage directories

.SS ./cimple
run cimple

.SH Commands
When using cimple, you can employ various commands. [option] means optional and <a|b> means a choice between a or b. Each action is applied on the current buffer.

.SS HELP

.TP
\fBhelp\fR Display help.

.SS TRANSFORMATIONS

.TP
\fBsymmetry <v|h>\fR Command to apply a vertical or horizontal symmetry to current buffer image.

.TP
\fBrotate [-r] n\fR Command to rotate image by n degrees. If -r is present, rotate in counter-clockwise. In case n isn't a mulitple of 90, raise an error.

.TP
\fBcopy [-a]\fR Copy an area into the buffer. If the flag -a is passed, applies to all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen. 

.TP
\fBcut [-a]\fR Copy an area into the buffer and fill the area with black. Put the selected area in black and white. If the flag -a is passed, applies to all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen.

.TP
\fBpaste [-a]\fR Paste the buffer onto the current image. If the flag -a is passed, applies to all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen.

.SS FRAME MODIFICATIONS

.TP
\fBtruncate [-s origin_x origin_y end_x end_y]\fR Command to specify a new square inside the current buffer image. Launch select mode and focus on image screen if command launches without any arguments. If -s is present , user have to specify the square dimensions in command line.


.TP
\fBresize <workspace|image> width height\fR Command to resize an image or the workspace (paint-like method). If the image is resize width and height are the new size. Else, it specifies the amount of pixels to add or remove to the current image.

.SS COLOR MODIFICATIONS

.TP
\fBnegative [-a]\fR Put the selected area in negative. If the flag -a is passed, applies to all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen.

.TP
\fBgreyscale [-a]\fR Put the selected area in greyscale. If the flag -a is passed, applies to all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen.


.TP
\fBbnw [-a]\fR Put the selected area in black and white. If the flag -a is passed, applies to all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen.

.TP
\fBfill [-a] red green blue alpha\fR Command to fill an area in image with a rgba color. If the flag -a is passed, fills all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen.

.TP
\fBreplace [-m margin] [-a] red green blue alpha red green blue alpha\fR Command to replace a color with another one. If margin is specify, it grabs more colors. 

.TP
\fBcontrast [-a] percent\fR Increase or decrease the contrast of the current buffer. Put the selected area in black and white. If the flag -a is passed, applies to all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen.

.TP
\fBlight [-a] percent\fR Increase or decrease the light of the current buffer. Copy an area into the buffer and fill the area with black. If the flag -a is passed, applies to all the image, otherwise launches select mode in buffer image screen.

.SS SCRIPTS

.TP
\fBapply_script path\fR Apply the script located in given path to the current buffer.

.TP
\fBedit_script path\fR Open the script located at path if it exists, otherwise create a new one.

.SS MULTIPLE ACTIONS

.TP
\fBbundle regex command\fR Apply a command (bnw, negative, greyscale) to a set of images, specified by a regex, in the current directory.

.SS FILE AND WINDOW MANAGER

.TP
\fBload [-w window_id] path\fR Command to load image in a window. To load an image in a specific window, already opened, you need to add -w flag and the window id. If the id isn't specify, it opens in a new window.

.TP
\fBsave [-p image_path]\fR Command to save an image used in the current window. In order to change image format , we need to use -p and write a valid image path with the new extension.

.TP
\fBlist_buffer\fR List all opened buffers.

.TP
\fBswitch_buffer window_id\fR Switch to the destination buffer.

.TP
\fBmove_buffer window_id\fR Move current image to another opened window. If the destination window is empty, it changes the current window id. Otherwise, it moves the current window content into the destination one.

.TP
\fBquit [-w window_id]\fR Quit a buffer specified by window_id. If none is specified, applies to all buffers opened.

.SH SELECT OR CLICK MODE
In select mode, you can use the click and drag to select an area, F to free the selection, Q to quit and cancel and V to validate. In click mode, you can use Q to quit and click to select a point.

.SH AUTEURS
.TS
tab(;) box;
c s
c| c|.
CIMPLE
_
Aliaksandr BUDZKO;leethater
Etienne MARAIS;kolibs
Karim MEZHER;kimo16
.TE

.SH GOT
In Game of Thrones, we think that Arya Stark will kill Daenerys because she killed John and Gendry will become the new king. (05/17/2019)

.SH COPYRIGHT
© MIT - BUDZKO MARAIS MEZHER